Add Expo source maps guide (#8854)
getsentry/sentry-docs: src/platforms/react-native/sourcemaps/uploading/expo.mdx

---
title: Expo

> description: "Upload source maps for native Expo releases and EAS Updates."

Author: ```suggestion
description: "Upload source maps for native Expo releases and EAS Update."
```

---

> Sentry's React Native SDK works out of the box with Expo applications. To see readable stack traces in the product source maps need to be uploaded to Sentry. This guide explains how to upload source maps for Expo applications.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Sentry's React Native SDK works out of the box with Expo applications. To see readable stack traces in the product, you must upload source maps to Sentry. This guide explains how to upload source maps for Expo applications.
```

Reviewer 2: > Upload source maps for native Expo releases and EAS Updates

somewhat confusingly, the library is called `expo-updates` but the service is called "EAS Update"

## Prerequisities

- [Sign up for an account](https://sentry.io/signup/)
- [Set up Sentry React Native SDK](/platforms/react-native/manual-setup/expo/) version 5.16.0-alpha.4 or newer

<OrgAuthTokenNote />

<Include name="react-native-sourcemaps-expo-common-instructions.mdx" />

## Automatic Upload for Release

> When Sentry Expo Plugin `@sentry/react-native/expo` and Sentry Metro Pugin are added to the application configuration source maps for the native builds are uploaded automatically during EAS Builds. And also when building the native application release locally using `expo prebuild`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When the Sentry Expo Plugin `@sentry/react-native/expo` and the Sentry Metro Pugin are added to your application configuration, source maps for the native builds are uploaded automatically during EAS Builds and when building the native application release locally using `expo prebuild`.
```

## Manual Upload for EAS Updates

> To upload source maps for EAS Updates and `expo export` set up the Sentry Expo Plugin, Sentry Metro plugin and execute the `sentry-expo upload-sourcemaps` command.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To upload source maps for EAS Updates and `expo export`, set up the Sentry Expo Plugin, the Sentry Metro plugin and execute the `sentry-expo upload-sourcemaps` command.
```

Reviewer 2: `sentry-expo upload-sourcemaps` -> `sentry-expo-upload-sourcemaps`

### Create Update

To create an update for the application use the following command:

```bash
# expo export
eas update
```

> ### Upload source maps

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Upload Source Maps
```

To upload source maps for all platforms use the following command:

```bash
SENTRY_PROJECT=___PROJECT_SLUG___ \
SENTRY_ORG=___ORG_SLUG___ \
SENTRY_AUTH_TOKEN=___ORG_AUTH_TOKEN___ \
npx sentry-expo-upload-sourcemaps dist
```

#### Notes

- `dist` is the default output directory of `eas update`.

## Notes

> If you are looking for a guide on how to manually upload source maps for Expo applications releases, please refer to the following guide:
> 
> - [How to manually upload source maps for Expo releases](/platforms/react-native/sourcemaps/uploading/expo-advanced/)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For a guide on how to manually upload source maps for Expo application releases, see the [Expo (Advanced)](/platforms/react-native/sourcemaps/uploading/expo-advanced/) source maps docs.
```
